Auto-Grading Paper TODO List

Make tables higher-res

Table 1 add #submits, #students columns

BIG QUESTION: description of system: should be present-tense? makes sense. All data/study remains past-tense.

Figure 1 :
	Instead of histogram, show a distro curve for each section
		collapse each student= subs/assignments (decimal number)
	perhaps collapse M's and A's into single thing

Mulhern 1
	
	Relax off actual analysis tricks (objcopy, nm, etc), focusing on high-level concepts
		mention source code transformation
		"Analyze student code to determine whether their procedure's have the signatures required by the assignment" is more general and more meaningful than "use nm to look at their object file"
		
		Maybe a better sell is:
		1) There are a lot of great tools for analyzing and verifying C out there.
		2) We'ld like introductory programming students to get the benefit of these tools.
		3) But they have so much to learn already --- they can't possibly be taught how to use all these tools as well and the principles behind them.
		4) Enter an intermediary, i.e., Bottlenose which automatically runs these tools, post processes the output making use of the instructor's greater knowledge and renders them back to the students in a form that they can understand.
	
CONCLUSIONS
	add a little bit about individuals who react well (case study stories)

Mulhern 1 - don't know how to deal with:
	In response to the comparison of the results at the end I think a cynical person would say that you are unfairly comparing two different forms of submission. You can not tell whether or not the students are revising multiple times before they hand in with submit, it may be that the quality of their revisions is actually much lower with Bottlenose than with submit.
	
** Mulhern 2 (technical) **

>>The phrase "after completing some number of successive assignments" is almost certainly intended to be "after completing a number of subsequent assignments". DONE

The sentence "The development of this system was informed by other state-of-the-art
systems developed at other universities, such as BOSS [5], CourseMarker [3], and Web-
Cat [2]." seems like troublesome filler.
The question that a reader like myself would ask immediately is "How?" and the answer is certainly not in the paper as it stands.
The reader would also wonder about the purpose of the adjective "state-of-the-art".
I think I know that WebCat tests student submissions against other student tests in Java --- I believe they do a lot of clever work using reflection to pull this off and that I talked to some people at SIGCSE about that.
>>Easy answer: The development of this system was informed by researching systems developed at other universities, such as BOSS [5], CourseMarker [3], and Web-Cat [2]. 
>>Does not answer "how", just "who", in this form, which is better. I don't want to expand this into a bitchfest of all the problems with the existing stuff.
>> added this: These systems were built to fit the nuances of a particular course or department, which made them difficult to customize and deploy into different environments. We created a system that is a general-purpose testing and evaluation platform for coursework that is devoid of language and testing preferences.

Verbs that describe the behavior of a currently existing software tool should be in the present, not the past tense.
For example, "Each student program was run under a separate system user
with minimal Unix permissions." should be "Each student program is run under a separate system user
with minimal Unix permissions."

Actually this should probably be restated as:
"Each student program is run as a separate user process."
"minimal Unix permissions" may not be a generally agreed upon quantity and is not very general either.

The phrase "this sandbox mechanism did not provide perfect security" is an odd one since it is followed in the same sentence
by "we have not yet identified any such vulnerability". The sentence is internally contradictory. Maybe it would be better if
shortened to "This sandbox mechanism may be vulnerable
to a clever student intentionally trying to defeat it. To date, we have not identified any exploit."

In the "Writing Tests" section it would be much more valuable to try to explain the type of feedback that students might receive
rather than to focus on the mechanisms for obtaining information from their code.

In the same spirit, if mentioning valgrind some remark on what kind of errors were reported to the students from valgrind's rather copious output
would be more valuable than just mentioning that it was used.

This sentence "Students with zero submissions,
instructors, administrators, and other non-students were removed from the data." is meant to be just descriptive but confuses me a bit.
It seems unnecessary to mention cleanup of the data to remove, e.g., instructor submissions, but it is questionable
to remove students with zero submissions. That probably needs to be justified as for example, "Student who never submitted
code during the semester were not considered to be participating in the class for the purpose of this study." I guess that does make them non-students. ;>

This sentence "Sadly, many students do not submit for every assignment, bringing down the average
submission rates." is ambiguous, because it could mean that many students never bother to submit a single assignment all
semester, but it could also mean that for a given assignment some students don't submit at all.